
Warning: Things Are About to Get Real

This is a Good Thing, because it will be a genuine character-building Learning Experience™.

```
(venv) (base) 20/05/29 5:01:00 kvogel-macbook-2018:~/p/python/tdd/testinggoat ±(master) ✗
❯ python manage.py startapp lists
❯ ls lists
__init__.py  admin.py     apps.py      migrations/  models.py    tests.py     views.py
❯ ls superlists
__init__.py  __pycache__/ settings.py  urls.py      wsgi.py
```

Unit Tests, and How They Differ from Functional Tests

functional tests test the application from the outside, from the point of view of the user. 
Unit tests test the application from the inside, from the point of view of the programmer.

The TDD approach we're following wants our application to be *covered* by *both types of test*.
Our workflow will look a bit like this:

* We start by writing a functional test, describing the new functionality from the user’s point of view.

* Once we have a functional test that fails, we start to think about how to write code that can get it to pass (or at least to get past its current failure). We now use one or more unit tests to define how we want our code to behave — ​the idea is that *each line* of production code we write should be tested by (at least) one of our unit tests.

* Once we have a failing unit test, we write the smallest amount of application code we can, just enough to get the unit test to pass. We may iterate between steps 2 and 3 a few times, until we think the functional test will get a little further.

* Now we can rerun our functional tests and see if they pass, or get a little further. That may prompt us to write some new unit tests, and some new code, and so on.

*the functional tests are driving what development we do from a high level, while the unit tests drive what we do at a low level*.

Unit Testing in Django

lists/tests.py
```py
from django.test import TestCase

# Create your tests here.
```

Django has helpfully suggested we use a special version of TestCase, which it provides. It’s an augmented version of the standard unittest.TestCase, with some additional Django-specific features

```py
class SmokeTest(TestCase):

    def test_bad_maths(self):
        self.assertEqual(1+1, 3)
```

```
(venv) 20/05/29 4:38:24 kvogel-macbook-2018:~/Projects/python/tdd/testinggoat ±(master) ✗ 
❯ python manage.py test
Creating test database for alias 'default'...
System check identified no issues (0 silenced).
F
======================================================================
FAIL: test_bad_maths (lists.tests.SmokeTest)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/Users/kvogel/Projects/python/tdd/testinggoat/lists/tests.py", line 8, in test_bad_maths
    self.assertEqual(1+1, 3)
AssertionError: 2 != 3
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 1 test in 0.001s

FAILED (failures=1)
Destroying test database for alias 'default'...
```